docs: Grammar overhaul (#20636)
nuxt/nuxt: docs/2.guide/3.going-further/1.internals.md

# How Nuxt Works?

Nuxt is a minimal but highly customizable framework for building web applications. This guide helps you better understand Nuxt internals to develop new solutions and module integrations on top of Nuxt.

## The Nuxt Interface

When you start Nuxt in development mode with `nuxi dev` or build a production application with `nuxi build`
a shared context will get created, referred to as `nuxt` internally. It holds normalized options merged with a `nuxt.config` file,
some internal state, and a powerful [hooking system](/docs/api/advanced/hooks) powered by [unjs/hookable](https://github.com/unjs/hookable)
allowing different components to communicate with each other. You can think of it as the **Builder Core**.

This context is globally available and useable with [nuxt/kit](/docs/api/advanced/kit) composables.
Therefore only one instance of Nuxt is allowed to run per process.

To extend the Nuxt interface and hook into different stages of the build process, we can use [Nuxt Modules](/docs/guide/going-further/modules).

> For more details check out [the source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/core/nuxt.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details check out the [source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/core/nuxt.ts).
```

## The NuxtApp Interface

When rendering a page in the browser or on the server, a shared context will get created, referred to as `nuxtApp`.

> This context keeps Vue instance, runtime hooks, and internal states like ssrContext and payload for hydration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This context keeps Vue instance, runtime hooks, and internal states like `ssrContext` and payload for hydration.
```

You can think of it as the **Runtime Core**.

> This context can be accessed using `useNuxtApp()` composable within Nuxt plugins and `<script setup>` and Vue composables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This context can be accessed using `useNuxtApp()` composable within Nuxt plugins, `<script setup>`, and Vue composables.
```

> Global usage is possible for the browser but not on the server to avoid sharing context between users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global usage is possible on the client but not on the server to avoid sharing context between users.
```

> To extend the `nuxtApp` interface and hook it into different stages or access contexts, we can use [Nuxt Plugins](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins).

Reviewer: I don't think we are hooking `nuxtApp` interface into different stages.
```suggestion
To extend the `nuxtApp` interface and hook into different stages of your Nuxt application or access contexts, you can use [Nuxt Plugins](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins).
```

Check [Nuxt App](/docs/api/composables/use-nuxt-app) for more information about this interface.

`nuxtApp` has the following properties:

> Note: this is an internal interface, and some properties might change until a stable release.

Reviewer: Stable release already took place.
```suggestion
Note: this is an internal interface, and some properties might change.
```

```js

> const nuxtApp = {

Author: Done!

}
```

> For more details check out [the source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details check out the [source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts).
```

## Runtime Context vs. Build Context

Nuxt builds and bundles project using Node.js but also has a runtime side.

> While both areas are extendable, that runtime context is isolated from build-time. Therefore, they are not meant to share state, code, or context other than runtime configuration!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While both runtime and build-time contexts are extendable, they are isolated from each other. Therefore, they are not meant to share state, code, or context other than runtime configuration!
```

> `nuxt.config` and [Nuxt Modules](/docs/guide/going-further/modules) can be used to extend the build context, and [Nuxt Plugins](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins) can be used to extend runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nuxt.config` and [Nuxt Modules](/docs/guide/going-further/modules) can be used to extend the build context, whereas [Nuxt Plugins](/docs/guide/directory-structure/plugins) can be used to extend runtime.
```

}
```

For more details check out the [source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/nuxt.ts).

> ## Runtime Context vs. Build Context

Author: Will look for it
